gse	title.x	submission_date.x	type.x	summary	organism_ch1	tlr1	tlr10	tlr2	tlr3	tlr4	tlr5	tlr6	tlr7	tlr8	tlr9
GSE2706	TLR agonists on human dendritic cells	38496	Expression profiling by array	"Toll like receptors (TLRs) sense microbial products and initiate adaptive immune responses by activating dendritic cells (DCs). Since pathogens may contain several agonists we asked whether different TLRs may synergize in DC activation. We report that in human and mouse DC TLR3 or TLR4 potently synergize with TLR7, TLR8 or TLR9 in the induction of selected cytokine genes. Upon synergistic stimulation, IL-12, IL-23 and Delta-4 are induced at levels 50-100 fold higher than those induced by optimal concentrations of single agonists, leading to enhanced and sustained TH1 polarizing capacity. Using microarray analysis we show that only 1.5% of the transcripts induced by single TLR agonists are synergistically regulated by combinations of TLR4 and TLR8 agonists.. These results identify a combinatorial code by which DCs discriminate pathogens and provide (suggest) a rationale to design adjuvants for TH1 responses.;	Series_overall_design: 3 untreated, 3 treated with LPS at 2h, 3 treated with LPS at 8h,  3 treated with R848 at 2h, 3 treated with R848 at 8h,  3 treated with LPS + R848 at 2h, 3 treated with LPS + R848 at 8h;	Keywords: other"	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	1	1	1
GSE6802	Gene expression analysis of bronchial epithelial cells stimulated by different airway pathogens.	39101	Expression profiling by array	"Bronchial epithelial cells represent the first line of defense against invading airborne pathogens. They are important contributors to innate mucosal immunity and provide a variety of anti-microbial effectors. To investigate the role of epithelial cells upon infection of airway pathogens, we stimulated BEAS-2B cells for 4 h with UV-inactivated bronchial pathogens including Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Respiratory Syncitial Virus (RSV) that among other receptors can strongly activate TLR2, TLR4 and TLR3, respectively.;	Keywords: expression profiling, response to pathogens"	Homo sapiens	0	0	1	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE9560	"Odontoblast-like cells and dental pulp fibroblasts stimulated with LTA, poly(I:C) and LPS."	39394	Expression profiling by array	"Odontoblasts and fibroblasts are suspected to influence the innate immune response triggered in the dental pulp by micro-organisms that progressively invade the human tooth during the carious process. To determine whether they differ in their responses to oral pathogens, we performed a systematic comparative analysis of odontoblast-like cell and pulp fibroblast responses to TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4 specific agonists (lipoteichoic acid [LTA], double-stranded RNA and lipopolysaccharide [LPS], respectively). Cells responded to these agonists by differential up-regulation of chemokine gene expression. CXCL2 and CXCL10 were thus increased by LTA only in odontoblast-like cells, while LPS increased CCL7, CCL26 and CXCL11 only in fibroblasts. These data suggest that odontoblasts and pulp fibroblasts differ in their innate immune responses to oral micro-organisms that invade the pulp tissue.;	Keywords: cell type comparaison"	Homo sapiens	0	0	1	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE10601	"Time course gene expression profiling of T-cell (CD40L+) induced, anti-CD40-siRNA treated, HUVECs"	39499	Expression profiling by array	"The CD40-CD40L dyad seems to play a prominent role fostering the immune-inflammatory response triggered by endothelial cell (EC)-T cell interaction. To comprehensively delineate the involvement of CD40 (TNFRSF5) in EC activation, we combined RNAi-mediated CD40 knock-down with comparative genome-wide transcriptional profiling of EC in response to T cell. We report the initiation of a profound stress response in ECs upon CD40-CD40L engagement through early up-regulation, among others, of the major pro-inflammatory NFkB and MAPK/SAPK pathways and their associated transcription factors. Moreover, we have identified novel genes regulated through the CD40-CD40L interaction, and pathways previously unrecognized to be induced by CD40 signaling in ECs. Thus, we document a strong down-regulation of endothelial APLN by CD40-CD40L interaction, which could lead to vascular tone dysfunction in atherosclerotic lesions. Conversely, CD40-mediated up-regulation of the viral immune surveillance system, notably TLR3, IFIH1, RIG-I, and RNASEL, establishes a reverse link from adaptive to innate immunity in ECs. Moreover, systematic enrichment analysis substantiates endothelial CD40 involvement in the transcriptional regulation of gene networks associated with adhesion and motility, immunity, cell fate control, hemostasis and metabolism. Our study also highlights the potency and specificity of CD40 siRNA mediated inhibition, and the relevance of CD40 signaling pathways for anti-inflammatory therapeutic intervention.;	Keywords: treated vs. untreated comparison, time course"	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE10741	Toll-like Receptor 3-induced Suppression via Binding of Suppressors of Cytokine Signaling 3 to Tyrosine Kinase 2	39512	Expression profiling by array	"The Suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) family of negative regulatory proteins are upregulated in response to several cytokines and pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs), and suppress cellular signaling responses by binding receptor phosphotyrosine residues. Exposure of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) to 1D8 cells, a murine model of ovarian carcinoma, suppresses their ability to express CD40 and stimulate antigen specific responses in response to PAMPs, and in particular to poly I: C with the upregulated SOCS3 transcript and protein levels. The ectopic expression of SOCS3 in both the macrophage cell line RAW264.7 and BMDCs decreased signaling in response to both poly I:C and IFNα. Further, knockdown of SOCS3 transcripts significantly enhanced the responses of RAW264.7 and BMDCs to both poly I: C and IFNα. Immunoprecipitation and pull-down studies demonstrate that SOCS3 binds to the IFNα receptor TYK2. Since poly I: C triggers autocrine IFNα signaling, binding of SOCS3 to TYK2 may thereby suppress the activation of BMDCs by polyI:C and IFNα. Thus, elevated levels of SOCS3 in tumor-associated DCs may potentially resist the signals induced by TLR3 ligands and type I interferon to decrease DC activation via binding with IFNα receptor TyK2.;	Keywords: Response to intracellular signaling from tumor cells by coculture or treated medium"	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE11327	Dendritic cells activated with LPS IFNg over 48 hours	39570	Expression profiling by array	"Pro-inflammation triggered by microbial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) through Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 in the presence of interferon (IFN)-g induces cytokine secretion in dendritic cells (DCs) tightly regulated by a defined differentiation program. This DC differentiation is characterized by a dynamic immune activating but also tolerance inducing phenotype associated with irreversible down-modulation of cytokines. CD40L on activated T cells further modifies DC differentiation. Using DNA micro arrays we showed down-regulated mRNA levels of TLR signaling molecules while CD40/CD40L signaling molecules were up-regulated at a time when LPS/IFN-g activated DCs have ceased cytokine expression. Accordingly we demonstrated that CD40/CD40L but not TLR4 or TLR3 signaling mediated by LPS or poly (cytidylic-inosinic) acid (poly I:C) and dsRNA re-established the capacity to secret interleukin (IL)-12 in LPS/IFN-g activated DCs, which have exhausted their potential for cytokine secretion. This resulting TH1 polarizing DC phenotype – which lacked accompanying secretion of the crucial immune suppressive IL-10 - enhanced activation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). We therefore conclude that immune modulation is restricted to a secondary T-cell mediated stimulus at an exhausted DC state which prevents an immune tolerant DC phenotype. These findings impacts on the rational design of TLR activated DC-based cancer vaccines for the induction of anti-tumoral CTL responses.;	Keywords: time course"	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE11898	Expression data from primary mesangial cells stimulated with DNA and RNA ligands	39625	Expression profiling by array	"Extrarenal viral infections commonly trigger glomerulonephritis mostly in association with immune complex disease. The immunoglobulin component of immune complexes can activate glomerular cell Fc receptors but whether complexed viral nucleic acids contribute to glomerular inflammation remains unknown. Glomerular mesangial cells express TLR3 but lack TLR7-9, hence, it is unclear whether mesangial cells can recognize and respond to viral ssRNA or DNA. Here we studied the immune responses activated by 3P-RNA (5'Triphosphate RNA) and Non-CpG DNA (Double stranded DNA) in primary mesangial cells (PMC).;	We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression that induced by 3P-RNA and Non-CpG DNA.;	;	Keywords: diffrent ligands"	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	1	0	0
GSE12124	In vitro response of fibroblasts isolated from patients with immunodeficiencies	39644	Expression profiling by array	"Children with autosomal recessive deficiency suffer from life-threatening, often recurrent viral or bacterial infections. We have profiled transcriptional responses of fibroblast cell lines derived from patients deficient for key regulators of immune responses such as MYD88, IRAK4, UNC93B, STAT1 or NEMO. This systems immunology approach revealed distinct patterns or responsiveness to stimuli activating the Toll-like/IL1 Receptor pathway in either an MYD88-dependent (IL1B) or independent (poly(I:C)) fashion, or activating the TNF pathway. The prototypic signatures in cell lines derived from patients were as follows: NEMO-deficient cells were unresponsive to all three stimuli, UNC-93B-deficient cells did not respond to poly(I:C), and STAT1-deficient cells responded only weakly to poly(I:C) after eight hours (not shown). MyD88- and IRAK-4-deficient cells had indistinguishable phenotypes, both being unresponsive to IL-1B at both time points. The signatures obtained in response to TNF and poly(I:C) (via TLR3) in these cells were similar to that of control fibroblasts."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE12154	Stimulation of type I Interferon system by double-stranded RNA in cultured human thyroid follicles	39646	Expression profiling by array	"Although viral infection is thought to be associated with subacute thyroiditis and probably with autoimmune thyroid disease, possible changes in thyroid function during the prodromal period of infection or subclinical infection remain largely unknown. Recently, it was shown that pathogen-associated molecular patterns stimulate Toll-like receptors (TLR) and activate innate immune responses by producing type I interferons (IFN).  Using a human thyroid follicle culture system, in which de novo synthesized thyroid hormones are released into the culture medium under physiological concentrations of hTSH, we studied the effects of polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (Poly(I:C)), a chemical analog of viral double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), on TSH-induced thyroid function.        Thyrocytes expressed ligands for dsRNA (TLR 3, CD14, and RIG-1) comparable to the TSH receptor.  DNA microarray and real-time PCR analyses revealed that dsRNA increased the expression of mRNA for TLR3, IFN-g, interferon-regulating factors, proinflammatory cytokines, and class I MHC, whereas genes associated with thyroid hormonogenesis (NIS, peroxidase, deiodinases) were suppressed. In accordance to these data, Poly(I:C) suppressed TSH-induced 125I uptake and hormone synthesis dose-dependently, accompanied by a decrease in the ratio of 125I-T3/125I-T4 released into the culture medium, whereas peptidoglycan, lipopolysaccharides, or unmethylated CpG DNA, ligands for TLR2, TLR4, and TLR9, respectively, had no significant effect.  These inhibitory effects of Poly(I:C) were not blocked by a neutralizing antibody against TLR3 and an anti-IFN alpha/beta receptor antibody. These in vitro findings suggest that when thyrocytes are infected with certain viruses, dsRNA formed intracellularly in thyrocytes may be a cause for thyroid dysfunction, leading to development of autoimmune thyroiditis.;	This data was published in Endocrinology, vol.148, 3226-3235, 2007.;	;	Keywords: Cultured human thyroid follicles"	Homo sapiens	0	0	1	1	1	0	0	0	0	1
GSE13300	IRAK-4- and MyD88-dependent pathways are essential for the removal of developing autoreactive B cells in humans	39742	Expression profiling by array	"Most autoreactive B cells are normally counterselected during early B cell development.  To determine whether Toll-like receptors (TLRs) regulate the removal of autoreactive B lymphocytes, we tested the reactivity of recombinant antibodies from single B cells isolated from patients deficient for IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)-4, myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88) and UNC-93B.  Indeed, all TLRs except TLR3 require IRAK-4 and MyD88 to signal and UNC-93B-deficient cells are unresponsive to TLR3, TLR7, TLR8 and TLR9.  All patients suffered from defective central and peripheral B cell tolerance checkpoints resulting in the accumulation of large numbers of autoreactive mature naïve B cells in their blood.  Hence, TLR7, TLR8, and TLR9 may prevent the recruitment of developing autoreactive B cells in healthy donors.  Paradoxically, IRAK-4-, MyD88- and UNC-93B-deficient patients did not display autoreactive antibodies in their serum nor developed autoimmune diseases, suggesting that IRAK-4, MyD88 and UNC-93B pathway blockade may thwart autoimmunity in humans."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	1	1	1
GSE14719	Liver gene expression profiles of TLR3-/- versus TLR3wt (C57Bl/6) mice	39849	Expression profiling by array	"cDNA was prepared from total liver RNA taken from untreated, 3 months old, TLR3-/- and TLR3wt C57Bl/6 mice"	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE14816	Immune Response of Immature Dendritic Cells after Infection with Human Cytomegalovirus Strain TB40E	39857	Expression profiling by array	"Microarray analysis and quantitative real-time PCR revealed that TB40E infection of DCs led to changes of the gene expression pattern. A variety of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines (CXCL10, CXCL11, CCL5), TLR3 and genes whose products function downstream of the TLR3 signalling pathway (e.g. IFN-α, IFN-β) were significantly upregulated."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE15066	"Macrophage Response to LPS, poly(I:C) and CpG DNA Stimulation"	39874	Expression profiling by array	"Molecular Pathways and Transcriptional Networks Involved in the Macrophage Response to LPS, poly(I:C) and CpG DNA Stimulation;	;	Background:  Toll-like family of receptors recognizes pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) from different organisms.  TLR4 is the receptor for bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), dsRNA viral mimic poly(I:C) binds to TLR3, and bacterial CpG DNA signals through TLR9.  TLR4 signaling is mediated by adaptor molecules Myd88 and TRIF while TLR3 pathway involves only the TRIF adaptor and TLR9 signals solely through Myd88.      Methods:  To identify genes other than those in TLR pathways that mediate macrophage response to different PAMPs, RAW264.7 cells were stimulated with LPS, poly(I:C), or CpG DNA, and RNA was profiled on microarrays 6 hrs and 24 hrs post-treatment.  Gene expression data were analyzed to determine genes, pathways and transcriptional networks that are in common and unique to each of the three TLR stimuli.  Potentially novel candidates revealed by this analysis were tested for their role in innate immunity using RNA interference.    Results:  Many genes are differentially regulated by LPS and poly(I:C) at both 6 hrs and 24 hrs following treatment, while CpG DNA elicits a much less pronounced transcriptional response.  By analyzing gene expression data for networks and pathways, we prioritized differentially expressed genes that are in common to all three PAMPs as well as those shared by LPS and poly(I:C).  Knockdown by RNA interference of two genes, Plec1 and TPST1, inhibited production of IL-6 in response to LPS in cultured macrophages.      Conclusions:  We have identified novel innate immunity genes that may be important in macrophage response to LPS, poly(I:C), and CpG DNA stimuli.  Our results provide potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets that should be further investigated in mice and human populations."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	1
GSE15416	Gene expression and synergistic interactions induced by CpG ODN and/or poly(I:C)	39898	Expression profiling by array	"Bioinformatic analysis of microarray data was used to identify the regulatory patterns underlying changes in gene expression induced when RAW 264.7 macrophages were stimulated via TLR9 by CpG oligonucleotides (ODN) and/or via TLR3 by poly (I:C). While the genes activated by each ligand mediated similar functions, poly (I:C) elicited a larger and more diverse change in gene expression. Co-stimulation with both ligands accelerated gene expression and synergistically activated genes primarily associated with immune function. This is the first work to compare global changes in gene regulation triggered by distinct TLR pathways and clarify their impact on gene expression."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	1
GSE20214	Gene expression profiling of pancreatic islets in BioBreeding rats	40214	Expression profiling by array	"Like humans, the NOD mouse and other diabetes susceptible rat strains, T1D in BB rats is dependent on the major histocompatibility complex (MHC, insulin dependent diabetes mellitus locus 1, Iddm1) located on chromosome 20. In rats this is the HLA-DQB1 homologue RT1-B, specifically the RT1u haplotype.  Our studies employ congenic derivatives of the BB rat, the DRlyp/lyp and DR+/+ strains, which differ only by the 2 Mb lyp (lymphopenia, Iddm2) region on chromosome 4. TID in the lymphopenic DRlyp/lyp rat is spontaneous and onset occurs in 100% of animals during adolescence (65.3+/-6.3 days) due to a recessive mutation within GIMAP5 (GTPase, IMAP family member 5). Gimap5 is a mitochondrial GTP-binding protein necessary for post-thymic T cell survival. The spontaneously diabetic phenotype observed in DRlyp/lyp rats is thought to be elicited through deficiency in CD4+CD25+ TREG cells as T1D in lymphopenic BB rats can be rescued through adoptive transfer of this population.  Genetic variation in GIMAP5 has been associated with the development of protein-tyrosine phosphatase-2 (IA-2) autoantibodies in human T1D [28] and is significantly associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The non-lymphopenic DR+/+ strain possesses wild-type GIMAP5 alleles and does not develop spontaneous T1D, however, T1D is inducible through administration of lymphotoxic anti-RT6 monoclonal antibody and immune activating polyinosinic polycytidylic acid (poly I:C; a ligand of toll-like receptor 3), or through viral depletion of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T (TREG) cells.  Such treatments do not induce T1D in the related Wistar-Furth (WF) rats and suggest the presence of an underlying diabetic predisposition in BB rats that is phenotypically manifested upon loss of immune regulation.;	DRlyp/lyp and DR+/+ rats possess characteristics that make them ideal for the identification of pathways relevant to the development of T1D since they possess absolute or conditional susceptibility to T1D.  The Gimap-/- Iddm2 locus conveys upon DRlyp/lyp rats a deficiency in immune regulatory capacity and the spontaneous T1D phenotype. Consistent with the concept that autoimmunity involves both a lack of self-tolerance as well as target organ-specific factors, we have discovered that DRlyp/lyp and DR+/+ (BB) rats share an islet specific stress. This is reflected by the expression of immune mediators, including the chemokine eotaxin that recruits eosinophils, certain T cell subsets, dendritic cells, and mast cells, by islet β cells early in life, before infiltration of immune cells into the islet (insulitis). While BB and WF rats share Iddm1 (RT1u/u MHC), islet eotaxin expression in not observed in WF islets and thus is associated with the T1D susceptibility of BB rats. Further supporting the hypothesis that additional genetic factors, perhaps those working at the level of the pancreatic β cell, are necessary for the development of T1D are the observations that 1) The generation Fischer 344 (F344) rats either homozygous for Gimap5-/-  or homozygous for both RT1u/u and Gimap5-/- fail to develop T1D; and 2) genetic crosses between BB rats and non diabetic strains have identified numerous Iddm loci independent of Iddm1 and Iddm2."	Rattus norvegicus	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE21548	Gene Expression Profiles of RAW264.7 Macrophages Stimulated with Two Commonly Used Preparations of LPS	40295	Expression profiling by array	"Background:  Toll-like family of receptors recognizes pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) from different organisms.  TLR4 is the receptor for bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), dsRNA viral mimic poly(I:C) binds to TLR3, and bacterial CpG DNA signals through TLR9.  TLR4 signaling is mediated by adaptor molecules Myd88 and TRIF while TLR3 pathway involves only the TRIF adaptor and TLR9 signals solely through Myd88.      Methods:  To identify genes other than those in TLR pathways that mediate macrophage response to different PAMPs, RAW264.7 cells were stimulated with LPS, poly(I:C), or CpG DNA, and RNA was profiled on microarrays 6 hrs and 24 hrs post-treatment.  Gene expression data were analyzed to determine genes, pathways and transcriptional networks that are in common and unique to each of the three TLR stimuli.  Potentially novel candidates revealed by this analysis were tested for their role in innate immunity using RNA interference.    Results:  Many genes are differentially regulated by LPS and poly(I:C) at both 6 hrs and 24 hrs following treatment, while CpG DNA elicits a much less pronounced transcriptional response.  By analyzing gene expression data for networks and pathways, we prioritized differentially expressed genes that are in common to all three PAMPs as well as those shared by LPS and poly(I:C).  Knockdown by RNA interference of two genes, Plec1 and TPST1, inhibited production of IL-6 in response to LPS in cultured macrophages.      Conclusions:  We have identified novel innate immunity genes that may be important in macrophage response to LPS, poly(I:C), and CpG DNA stimuli.  Our results provide potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets that should be further investigated in mice and human populations.;	;	Keywords: time course"	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	1
GSE22217	MICROARRAY-BASED GENE EXPRESSION ANALYSIS OF HUMAN OSTEOBLASTS IN RESPONSE TO ROUGHNESS AND FLUORIDE TREATMENT OF TITANIUM IMPLANTS	40337	Expression profiling by array	"Tissue response following implantation determines the success of the healing process. This response is not only dependent on the chemical properties of the implant surface but also by the surface topography or its roughness. Although in vitro and in vivo studies show improved results with rough- and fluoride-modified implants, the mechanisms behind these findings are still unknown. Here, we have used a two step procedure to identify novel genes related to the early cell response of primary human osteoblasts to roughness and fluoride-modified titanium implants. 217 genes were identified by microarray analysis as response genes to roughness and 198 genes as response genes to fluoride. 11 of these identified genes have been related to bone and mineralization and were further investigated by real-time RT-PCR. After one day of culture, TLR3, ANKH, DCN, OC and RUNX2 were classified as responsive genes to roughness; DLX2 and TUFT1 as responsive genes to fluoride treatment. COLL-I, PTHLH, HES1, FST, ENPP1 and THRA as responsive genes to both, roughness and fluoride treatment.  In conclusion, our strategy was useful for identifying novel genes that might be involved in the early response of osteoblasts to roughness and fluoride treatment of titanium implants.   Tissue response following implantation determines the success of the healing process. This response is not only dependent on the chemical properties of the implant surface but also by the surface topography or its roughness. Although in vitro and in vivo studies show improved results with rough- and fluoride-modified implants, the mechanisms behind these findings are still unknown. Here, we have used a two step procedure to identify novel genes related to the early cell response of primary human osteoblasts to roughness and fluoride-modified titanium implants. 217 genes were identified by microarray analysis as response genes to roughness and 198 genes as response genes to fluoride. 11 of these identified genes have been related to bone and mineralization and were further investigated by real-time RT-PCR. After one day of culture, TLR3, ANKH, DCN, OC and RUNX2 were classified as responsive genes to roughness; DLX2 and TUFT1 as responsive genes to fluoride treatment. COLL-I, PTHLH, HES1, FST, ENPP1 and THRA as responsive genes to both, roughness and fluoride treatment.  In conclusion, our strategy was useful for identifying novel genes that might be involved in the early response of osteoblasts to roughness and fluoride treatment of titanium implants."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE22373	Monocyte vs Macrophage Study	40344	Expression profiling by array	"Human intestinal macrophages contribute to tissue homeostasis in noninflamed mucosa through profound down-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Here, we show that this down-regulation extends to Toll-like receptor (TLR)-induced cytokine release, as intestinal macrophages expressed TLR3-TLR9 but did not release cytokines in response to TLR-specific ligands. Likely contributing to this unique functional profile, intestinal macrophages expressed markedly down-regulated adapter proteins MyD88 and Toll interleukin receptor 1 domain-containing adapter-inducing interferon beta, which together mediate all TLR MyD88-dependent and -independent NF-kappaB signaling, did not phosphorylate NF-kappaB p65 or Smad-induced IkappaBalpha, and did not translocate NF-kappaB into the nucleus. Importantly, transforming growth factor-beta released from intestinal extracellular matrix (stroma) induced identical down-regulation in the NF-kappaB signaling and function of blood monocytes, the exclusive source of intestinal macrophages. Our findings implicate stromal transforming growth factor-beta-induced dysregulation of NF-kappaB proteins and Smad signaling in the differentiation of pro-inflammatory blood monocytes into noninflammatory intestinal macrophages."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	1
GSE24155	AIM2-responsive genes in colorectal tumor cells	40436	Expression profiling by array	"Absent in Melanoma 2 (AIM2) is a member of the HIN-200 family of hematopoietic, IFN-inducible nuclear proteins associated with infection defense and tumor pathology. Recently, AIM2 was found to act as a DNA sensor in innate immunity. In addition, a high frequency of AIM2-alterations was observed in microsatellite unstable tumors. To elucidate AIM2 function in colorectal tumors, we here addressed AIM2-responsive genes by microarray. Among genes up-regulated by AIM2, there were a number of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs: IFIT1, IFIT2, IFIT3, IFI6, IRF7, ISG15, HLA-DRA, HLA-DRB, TLR3 and CIITA) as well as genes involved in intercellular adhesion and matrix remodeling. Expression of ISGs correlated with expression of AIM2 in ten different IFN-γ treated colorectal cancer cell lines. Moreover, knock-down of AIM2 resulted in reduced expression of HLA-DRA, HLA-DRB, and CIITA in IFN-γ treated cells. IFN-γ independent induction of HLA-DR genes and their encoded proteins was also demonstrated upon transient induction of AIM2. STAT-signaling was not involved in IFN-γ independent induction of ISGs, arguing against participation of cytokines released in an autocrine manner. Our data indicate that AIM2 mediates IFN-γ dependent and independent induction of several Interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) including genes encoding the MHC II antigens HLA-DRα and β.;	we used microarray techniques to define genes responsive to AIM2 expression in colorectal tumor cells."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE24671	"The nucleic-acid recognizing Toll-like receptors -3, -7 and -9 cooperatively protect against murine T cell lymphoma caused by endogenous retrovirus"	40464	Expression profiling by array	"The genome of vertebrates contains endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) that have resulted from ancestral infections by exogenous retroviruses. ERVs are germline encoded, transmitted in a Mendelian fashion and account for about 8% of the human and 9.9% of the murine genome, respectively1, 2. By spontaneous activation and reintegration ERVs may cause insertional mutagenesis and thus participate in the process of malignant transformation or progression of tumor growth3, 4. However, if the innate immune system is able to recognize and control ERVs has not yet been elucidated. Here we report that, in vitro, nucleic-acid sensing TLRs on dendritic cells are activated by retroviral RNA and DNA from infected cells in vitro. Infection of TLR competent wild type mice with murine leukemia virus (MuLV)-like ERV isolates results in non-canonical gene upregulation, independent of type I IFN. In vivo, TLR3, -7 and -9 triple deficient mice (TLR379-/-) and mice with non functional TLR3, 7 and 9 signaling due to a mutation in UNC93B develop spontaneous ERV-induced viremia. More importantly, in TLR379-/- mice ERV-induced viremia correlates with acute T cell lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Multiple independent TLR379-/- T cell leukemia lines produce infectious MuLV of endogenous origin. These cell lines display de novo retroviral integration into the Nup214 or Notch1 gene locus leading to gene dysregulation that is reminiscent of aberrant Nup214 and Notch1 expression in human T-ALLs5. Overall, our results demonstrate that in addition to their role in innate immune defense against exogenous pathogens, TLR3,-7, and -9 may be essential for the control of endogenous retroviral mediated T-cell lymphomagenesis."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE30951	Complete TLR3 deficiency	40750	Expression profiling by array	The objective of this study is to study the Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3)-dependent gene expression in human fibroblast cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE32390	In vitro responses of PBMC and fibroblasts from patients with TRIF deficiency after TRIF dependent and independent stimuli	40812	Expression profiling by array	"We report here unrelated HSE patients with autosomal recessive (AR) or autosomal dominant (AD) TRIF deficiency. The AR form of the disease is due to a homozygous nonsense mutation, resulting in a complete absence of the TRIF protein. Both the TLR3 and the TRIF-dependent TLR4 signaling pathways are abolished. The AD form of TRIF deficiency is due to a heterozygous missense mutation resulting in a dysfunctional protein. The TLR3 signaling pathway is impaired, whereas the TRIF-dependent TLR4 pathway is unaffected. Both patients however showed reduced capacity to respond to cytosolic double stranded RNA, consistent with recent reports of TRIF’s involvement in the DExD/H-box helicases pathway."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE32862	Synthetic double stranded RNA reliably induces innate immunity similar to a live viral vaccine in humans	40827	Expression profiling by array	"Adjuvants are critical for the success of vaccines, and agonists for microbial pattern recognition receptors are promising new candidates. A mechanism for the immune enhancing role of adjuvants is to stimulate innate immunity. We studied the innate immune response in humans to synthetic double stranded RNA (poly ICLC), a ligand for TLR3 and MDA-5 cytosolic RNA helicase. Transcriptional analysis of blood samples from eight volunteers, after subcutaneous administration of poly ICLC showed upregulation of genes involved in multiple innate immune pathways in all subjects, including interferon and inflammasome signaling. Blocking of type I interferon receptor ex vivo significantly dampened the response to poly IC. Comparative transcriptional analysis showed that several innate pathways were similarly induced in volunteers immunized with the highly efficacious Yellow Fever Vaccine. Therefore a chemically defined microbial agonist like poly ICLC can be a reliable and authentic microbial mimic for inducing innate immunity, here for a live attenuated viral vaccine in humans."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE32893	Human bronchial epithelial cells exposed to A. alternata spores	40827	Expression profiling by array	"This present study is the first to investigate the global changes in host gene expression during the interaction of human bronchial epithelial cells and live Alternaria spores. Human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS2-B) were exposed to spores or media alone for 24 hours. RNA was collected from three biological replicates/treatment and used to assess changes in gene expression patterns using Affymetrix Human Genome U133 Plus 2.0 Arrays. Interestingly, many cytokine/chemokine immune response genes were upregulated. Genes involved in cell death, retinoic acid signaling, TLR3, and interferon response pathways were also significantly upregulated."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE36891	Profiling of gene expression in TLR2 and TLR3 activated macrophages	40996	Expression profiling by array	"We have identified more than 50 genes that have upregulated expression in TLR3 activated (PMI-1,2), but have downregulated expression in TLR2 activated (PMP-1,2) macrophages, as compared to control cells (PMC-1,2)"	Mus musculus	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE38652	In vitro responses of fibroblasts from patients with TBK1 deficiency after TLR3 dependent and independent stimuli	41072	Expression profiling by array	"We report here two unrelated HSE patients carrying different heterozygous mutations (D50A and G159A) in TBK1, the gene encoding TANK-binding kinase 1, a kinase at the crossroads of multiple IFN-inducing signaling pathways. Both mutant TBK1 alleles are loss-of-function, but through different mechanisms: protein instability (D50A) or a loss of kinase activity (G159A). Both are also associated with an autosomal dominant (AD) trait, but by different mechanisms: haplotype-insufficiency (D50A) or negative dominance (G159A). A defect in poly(I:C)-induced TLR3 responses can be detected in fibroblasts heterozygous for G159A, but not for D50A TBK1."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE40593	Impaired intrinsic immunity to HSV-1  in human iPSC-derived TLR3-deficient CNS cells	41156	Expression profiling by array	"In the course of primary infection with herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), children with inborn errors of the TLR3- and UNC-93B-dependent induction of IFN-α/β and/or IFN-λ immunity are prone to HSV-1 encephalitis (HSE) 1-3. The cells responsible for HSE in these children have yet to be identified. We tested the hypothesis that the pathogenesis of HSE involves non hematopoietic central nervous system (CNS)-resident cells. We derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from the dermal fibroblasts of TLR3- and UNC-93B-deficient patients and from controls. These iPSCs were allowed to differentiate into highly purified populations of neural stem cells (NSCs), neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The induction of IFN-β and/or IFN-λ1 in response to poly(I:C) stimulation was dependent on TLR3 and UNC-93B in all cells tested. However, the induction of IFN-β and IFN-λ1 in response to HSV-1 infection was impaired selectively in UNC-93B-deficient neurons and oligodendrocytes. These cells were also much more susceptible to HSV-1 infection than control cells, whereas UNC-93B-deficient NSCs and astrocytes were not. The rescue of UNC-93B-deficient cells with the wild-type UNC93B1 allele demonstrated the genetic defect as the cause of the poly(I:C) and HSV-1 phenotypes. The viral infection phenotype was further rescued by treatment with exogenous IFN-α/β, but not IFN-λ1. TLR3-deficient neurons were also found to be susceptible to HSV-1 infection, a phenotype rescued by wild-type TLR3. Thus, impaired TLR3- and UNC-93B-dependent IFN-α/β intrinsic immunity to HSV-1 in the CNS, in neurons and oligodendrocytes in particular, may underlie the pathogenesis of HSE in children with TLR3 pathway deficiencies"	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE40812	Impaired TLR3-mediated immune responses from macrophages of patients chronically infected with Hepatitis C virus	41164	Expression profiling by array	"Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the most common chronic blood-borne infection in the United States with the majority of patients becoming chronically infected and a subset (20%) progressing to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Individual variations in immune responses may help define successful resistance to infection with HCV. We have examined the immune response in primary macrophages from patients who have spontaneously cleared HCV (viral load negative, VL-, n = 37) compared to HCV genotype 1 chronically infected (VL+) subjects (n=32) and found that macrophages from VL- subjects have an elevated baseline expression of Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3). Macrophages from HCV patients were stimulated ex vivo through the TLR3 pathway and assessed using gene expression arrays and pathway analysis. We found elevated TLR3 response genes and pathway activity from VL- subjects. Furthermore, macrophages from VL- subjects showed higher production of IFN-b and related IFN response genes by Q-PCR, and increased phosphorylation of STAT-1 by immunoblot. Analysis of polymorphisms in TLR3 revealed a significant association of intronic TLR3 polymorphism (rs13126816) with the clearance of HCV and the expression of TLR3. Of note, PBMCs from the same donors showed opposite changes in gene expression, suggesting ongoing inflammatory responses in PBMCs from VL+ HCV patients. Our results suggest that an elevated innate immune response enhances HCV clearance mechanisms and may offer a potential therapeutic approach to increase viral clearance."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE42694	Quiescent innate response to infective filariae by human Langerhans’ cells suggests a strategy of immune evasion	41246	Expression profiling by array	"Filarial infection is initiated by mosquito-derived, third-stage larvae (L3) deposited on the skin that transits through the epidermis containing Langerhans' cells (LC) and keratinocytes (KC), among other cells. This earliest interaction between L3 and the LC likely conditions the priming of the immune system to the parasite. To determine the nature of this interaction, human LC (Langerin+, E-cadherin+, CD1a+) were generated in vitro and exposed to live L3. LC exposed to live L3 for 48 h showed no alterations in cell surface markers CD14, CD86, CD83, CD207, E-cadherin, CD80, CD40, and HLA-DR or in mRNA expression of inflammation-associated genes such as IL-18, IL-18BP, and caspase 1. In contrast to L3, live tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii, an intracellular parasite, induced production of CXCL9, IP 10, and IL-6 in LC. Furthermore, pre-exposure of LC to L3 did not alter TLR3- or TLR4-mediated expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IFN-γ, IL-6, or IL-10. Interestingly, co-cultures of KC and LC produced significantly more IL-18, IL-1α, and IL-8 than did cultures of LC alone, although exposure of the co-cultures to live L3 did not result in altered cytokine production. Microarray examination of ex vivo LC from skin blisters that were exposed to live L3 also showed few significant changes in gene expression compared with unexposed blisters, further underscoring the relatively muted response of LC to L3. Our data suggest that failure by LC to initiate an inflammatory response to the invasive stage of filarial parasites may be a strategy for immune evasion by the filarial parasite."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE43217	Gene expression profile changes in PKC-inhibitor-pretreated HT1080 cells cells after TLR3 stimulation	41274	Expression profiling by array	TLR3 stimulation by extracellular dsRNA (e.g. polyIC) induces expression of numerous genes. The inhibition of PKC by Go6976 prior to TLR3 stimulation leads to an ablation of expression of IRF-3-dependent genes.	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE43218	Gene expression profile changes in HDAC6 knockdown HT1080 cells cells after TLR3 stimulation	41274	Expression profiling by array	TLR3 stimulation by extracellular dsRNA (e.g. polyIC) induces expression of numerous genes. The knockdown of HDAC6 prior to TLR3 stimulation leads to an ablation of expression of IRF-3-dependent genes.	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE54042	"Multistrain Probiotic Modulation of Intestinal Epithelial Cells' Immune Response to a Double-Stranded RNA Ligand, Poly (I:C)"	41652	Expression profiling by array	"A commercially available product containing three probiotic bacterial strains (Lactobacillus helveticus R0052, Bifidobacterium longum subsp. infantis R0033, and Bifidobacterium bifidum R0071) was previously shown in animal trials to modulate both TH1 and TH2 immune responses. Clinical studies on this combination of bacteria have also shown positive health effects against seasonal winter diseases and rotavirus infection. The goal of this study was to use a well-established in vitro intestinal epithelial (HT-29) cell model that has been shown to constitutively express double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) sensors (Toll-like receptor 3[TLR3], retinoic acid-inducible gene I, melanoma differentiation-associated gene 5, and dsRNA-activated protein kinase). By using the HT-29 cell model, we wanted to evaluate whether or not this combination of three bacteria had the capacity to immune modulate the host cell response to a dsRNA ligand, poly(I•C). Using a custom-designed, two-color expression microarray targeting genes of the human immune system, we investigated the response of HT-29 cells challenged with poly(I•C) both in the presence and in the absence of the three probiotic bacteria. We observed that the combination of the three bacteria had a major impact on attenuating the expression of genes connected to proinflammatory TH1 and antiviral innate immune responses compared to that obtained by the poly(I•C)-only challenge. Major pathways through which the multistrain combination may be eliciting its immune-modulatory effect include the TLR3-TRIF, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and NF-KB signaling pathways.Such a model may be useful for selecting potential biomarkers for the design of future clinical trials"	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE57512	Identification of TLR3 regulated genes in CD8 positive Dendritic cell line	41768	Expression profiling by array	"CD8 positive dendritic cell line , stimulated with or without TLR3 ligand polyI:C;	We used microarray to obtain global gene expression data of TLR3 regulated genes"	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE68820	Mouse lung tissue transcriptome response to a mouse-adapted strain of SARS-CoV in wild type C57BL6/NJ mice and TLR3-/- mice	42136	Expression profiling by array	The purpose is to determine the role of TLR3-/- on the regulation of the host immune response during lethal SARS-CoV infection	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE71731	The impact of PPARα activation on whole genome gene expression in human precision-cut liver slices	42220	Expression profiling by array	"Background: Studies in mice have shown that PPARα is an important regulator of lipid metabolism in liver and a key transcription factor involved in the adaptive response to fasting. However, much less is known about the role of PPARα in human liver. Here we set out to study the function of PPARα in human liver via analysis of whole genome gene regulation in human liver slices treated with the PPARα agonist Wy14643.;	;	Results: Quantitative PCR indicated that PPARα is well expressed in human liver and human liver slices and that the classical PPARα targets PLIN2, VLDLR, ANGPTL4, CPT1A and PDK4 are robustly induced by PPARα activation. Transcriptomics analysis indicated that 617 genes were upregulated and 665 genes were downregulated by PPARα activation (q value<0.05). Many genes induced by PPARα activation were involved in lipid metabolism (ACSL5, AGPAT9, FADS1, SLC27A4), xenobiotic metabolism (POR, ABCC2, CYP3A5) or the unfolded protein response, whereas most of the downregulated genes were involved in immune-related pathways. Among the most highly repressed genes upon PPARα activation were several chemokines (e.g. CXCL9-11, CCL8, CX3CL1, CXCL6), interferon γ-induced genes (e.g. IFITM1, IFIT1, IFIT2, IFIT3) and numerous other immune-related genes (e.g. TLR3, NOS2, and LCN2). Comparative analysis of gene regulation by Wy14643 between human liver slices and primary human hepatocytes showed that down-regulation of gene expression by PPARα is much better captured by liver slices as compared to primary hepatocytes. In particular, PPARα activation markedly suppressed immunity/inflammation-related genes in human liver slices but not in primary hepatocytes. Finally, several putative new target genes of PPARα were identified that were commonly induced by PPARα activation in the two human liver model systems, including TSKU, RHOF, CA12 and VSIG10L.;	;	Conclusion: Our manuscript demonstrates the suitability and superiority of human liver slices over primary hepatocytes for studying the functional role of PPARα in human liver. Our data underscore the major role of PPARα in regulation of hepatic lipid and xenobiotic metabolism in human liver and reveal a marked immuno-suppressive/anti-inflammatory effect of PPARα in human liver slices that may be therapeutically relevant for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease."	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE81193	Characterising the transcriptional profile of murine 3T3-L1 adipocytes with altered expression of IRF3.	42496	Expression profiling by high throughput sequencing	"The chronic inflammatory state that accompanies obesity is a major contributor to insulin resistance and other metabolic dysfunction features. Despite recent advances in our understanding of the cellular and secreted factors that promote the inflammatory milieu of obesity, we have much less insight into the transcriptional pathways that drive these processes. While most attention has focused on the canonical inflammatory transcription factor NF-KB, other potentially important factors exist, including members of the interferon regultory factor (IRF) family. Here we show that IRF3 expression is upregulated in the adipocytes of obese mice and humans. TLR3/TLR4 activation induces insulin resistance in adipocytes, which can be prevented by IRF3 knockdown. Furthermore, Irf3KO mice display improved insulin sensitivity, associated with reduced intra-adipose and systemic inflammation in the high-fat fed state, enhanced browning of subcutaneous fat, and increased adipose expression of Glut4. Taken together, our data indicates that IRF3 is a major transcriptional regulator of adipose inflammation to maintain systemic glucose and energy homeostasis."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	1	0	0	0	0	0
GSE79241	Gene profiling in the colon after depletion and activation of TLR3 and TLR7 signals	42444	Expression profiling by array	"TLR3 and TLR7 are critical recognition receptor which reacts with viruses. TLR3 and TLR7 contribute to many immunological pathway. Especially, TLR3 and TLR7 are clearly involved in the regulation of innate immunity in the gut. To identify the downstream target of TLR 3 and TLR7 in the IBD, we carried out microarray."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	1	0	0
GSE76397	Gene expression signatures for murine alveolar type II lung epithelial cells after tumor bearing	42367	Expression profiling by array	"To determine the influence of primary tumors on pre-metastatic lungs, we have employed whole genome microarray expression profiling as a discovery platform to identify gene signatures of alveolar type II epithelial cells (AT-II) in TLR3 deficient mice (Tlr3-/-) and wide-type (WT) littermates with tumor bearing. We subcutaneously inoculated Tlr3-/- and WT mice with Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC). Two weeks later, lung tissues from Tlr3-/- and WT mice were dissociated and AT-II cells were sorted. AT-II cells from mice without tumor bearing were set as controls."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE67241	A positive feedback-loop regulates transcriptional response to murine pandemic influenza infection	42087	Expression profiling by array	"The biological basis for the increased severity of influenza A viruses during the 2009 influenza pandemic remains unclear. Intra-host evolution of quasispecies and strong inflammation were identified as important hallmarks of severe pandemic H1N1 influenza A virus 2009 (A(H1N1)pdm09) infection. HA-222D/G quasispecies of A(H1N1)pdm09 were shown to  undergo fast evolution and to cause severe influenza in human and mice. Here, we analysed the whole genome transcriptional response of mice infected with the A/Jena/5258/09 (mpJena/5258) virus over a period of 12 days to gain insights into the pathogenesis of A(H1N1)pdm09 HA-222D/G quasispecies on a molecular level. Remarkably, the transcriptional response to severe mpJena/5258 showed biphasic expression profile for the majority of genes which was never shown before. The gene expression analysis shows first peak with 968 differentially expressed genes at day 2 post infection (p.i.), followed by a stagnant recovery phase with 359 differentially expressed genes at day 4 p.i., and a second peak with 1001 differentially expressed genes at day 7 p.i., finally followed by a recovery phase. Using a reverse engineering strategy, a regulatory network was inferred to identify key interactions leading to severe pathogenesis of mpJena/5258. Known regulatory interactions were extracted by Pathway Studio 9.0 and softly integrated during network inference. The results demonstrate a hyper-responsive action and a positive feedback loop of IFN gamma (Ifng), Stat1 and Tlr3 signalling during mpJena/5258 infection. In conclusion, mpJena/5258 infection is associated with biphasic gene expression profile and a positive feedback mechanism of Ifng which correlates with the evolution of HA-222D/G quasispecies and leads to  overwhelming immune response. A significant correlation were found between the co-expression action of three genes (Ifng, Stat1 and Tlr3) with a phenomenological clinical symptom score."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE92358	"Role of the endosomal TLR3, 7 and 9 receptors in anti-tumor immunity"	42717	Expression profiling by array	"Analysis of gene expression on day four and day six after tumor inoculation.;	We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression underlying differences between wildtype and TLR knockout mice."	Mus musculus	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
GSE92646	Gene expression in normal human epidermal keratinocytes treated with poly(I:C)	42724	Expression profiling by array	"In a rare example akin to organogenesis in adult mammals, large wounds in mice lead to de novo morphogenesis of hair follicles. It is still not fully clear what controls this process, known as Wound Induced Hair Neogenesis (WIHN). In other tissues, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is an important effector of regeneration and has been shown to stimulate the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, which in turn is known to control WIHN. Previously, our group has demonstrated that noncoding dsRNA released during wounding is both necessary and sufficient to stimulate WIHN through TLR3. Here, we hypothesize that dsRNA similarly induces the beta-catenin pathway through PGE2. We find that WIHN levels correlate closely to Wnt7b production in vivo, and that dsRNA potently induces Wnt7b in a manner that requires prostaglandin-endoperoxide synthase 2 (Ptgs2). The Ptgs2 inhibitor celecoxib reduces dsRNA-induced WIHN and Wnt7b, and exogenous PGE2 can rescue WIHN and Wnt7b. These results highlight noncoding dsRNA as a novel upstream coordinator of prostaglandin and Wnt levels in regeneration.;	We used microarrays to identify the human keratinocyte genes most upregulated or downregulated by poly(I:C)"	Homo sapiens	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	0
