select		gse	title.x	submission_date.x	type.x	summary	organism_ch1	Curated	tlr1	tlr10	tlr2	tlr3	tlr4	tlr5	tlr6	tlr7	tlr8	tlr9	Comments
1		GSE4445	TLR7 gene duplication accelerates autoimmunity and promotes nucleolar-specific B cells	38786	Expression profiling by array	"Systemic autoimmune diseases such as lupus and scleroderma are characterized by the loss of tolerance to nuclear antigens, but the mechanisms by which specific autoantibodies are selected are unclear.  Here we report that B cells containing the Y-linked autoimmune accelerator (Yaa) locus are intrinsically biased towards nucleolar antigens due to a duplication of TLR genes in the pseudoautosomal region that makes them more responsive to TLR7 ligands and augments the Btk-dependent signaling pathway.  These findings provide genetic evidence that naturally occurring differences in expression of TLR7 have a dramatic impact on antigen selection in autoimmunity.;	Keywords: genetic modification, Yaa locus"	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
0		GSE14386	Interferon beta-1a-induced changes in gene expression in PBMCs derived from CIS patients	39825	Expression profiling by array	"IFNβ, an effective therapy against relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS) is naturally secreted during the innate immune response against viral pathogens.  The objective of this study was to characterize the immunomodulatory mechanisms of IFNβ targeting innate immune response and their effects on DC-mediated regulation of T-cell differentiation.  We found that IFNβ−1a in-vitro treatment of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) induced the expression of TLR7 and the members of its downstream signaling pathway, including myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), IL-1R-associated kinase (IRAK)4, and TNF receptor-associated factor (TRAF)6, while it inhibited the expression of IL-1R.  Using siRNA TLR7 gene silencing, we confirmed that IFNβ-1a-induced changes in MyD88, IRAK4 and IL-1R expression were dependent on TLR7.  TLR7 expression was also necessary for the IFNβ-1a-induced inhibition of IL-1β and IL-23, and the induction of IL-27 secretion by DCs.  Supernatant (SN) transfer experiments confirmed that IFNβ-1a-induced changes in DCs’ cytokine secretion inhibit Th17 cell differentiation as evidenced by the inhibition of retinoic acid-related orphan nuclear hormone receptor C (RORC) and IL-17A gene expression and IL-17A secretion.  Our study has identified a novel therapeutic mechanism of IFNβ−1a, that selectively targets the autoimmune response in MS.;	;	Keywords: The effect of IFN beta-1a on the gene expression in patients with clinically isolated syndrome suggestive of MS"	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE22124	Microarry datasets for RAW cells stimulated with R848 in the absence or presence of apilimod or API09	6/3/2010	Expression profiling by array	"Apilimod is a reported TLR pathway antagonist in clinical trial. To understand the mode of action of apilimod, we applied global microarray analysis to explore the effect of apilimod on gene expression of RAW cell in the absence of presence of R848 (TLR7 ligand)."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
0		GSE57324	"Gene expression analysis in the spleen of wild type, Sle1.3 (lupus mice) and Sle1.3 mice haplodeficient for E2-2 (exhibiting non functional pDCs)"	5/6/2014	Expression profiling by array	"Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by the production of antibodies to self-nucleic acids, immune complex deposition and tissue inflammation such as glomerulonephritis. Innate recognition of molecular complexes containing self-DNA and RNA and the ensuing production of type I interferons (IFN) contribute to SLE development. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) have been proposed as a relevant source of pathogenic IFN in SLE; however, their net contribution to the disease remains unclear. We addressed this question using haplodeficiency of the pDC-specific transcription factor E2-2 (Tcf4), which causes a specific impairment of pDC function in otherwise normal animals. We report that Tcf4+/- animals were significantly protected from SLE-like disease caused by the overexpression of the endosomal RNA sensor Tlr7. The protection was also observed after the monoallelic deletion of Tcf4 specifically in the dendritic cell lineage. Furthermore, Tcf4 haplodeficiency in the B6.Sle1.Sle3 multigenic model of SLE ameliorated key disease manifestations including anti-DNA antibody production, immune activation and glomerulonephritis. These results provide genetic evidence that pDCs are critically involved in SLE pathogenesis, confirming their potential utility as therapeutic targets in the disease."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE64480	Treatment of human monocytes with TLR7 or TLR8 agonists	12/23/2014	Expression profiling by array	Goal was to detect differences in response to TLR7 versus TLR8 agonists in human monocytes from healthy donors	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	1	0	
0		GSE65514	Gene expression data from Peyer's patch mononuclear phagocyte system	2/2/2015	Expression profiling by array	"Peyer’s patches (PP) are primary inductive sites of mucosal immunity. Defining PP mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) is thus crucial to understand the initiation of mucosal immune response. We provide a comprehensive analysis of the phenotype, distribution,;	ontogeny, lifespan, function and transcriptional profile of PP MPS. We show that monocytes give rise to macrophages and to lysozyme-expressing DC (LysoDC) which are both involved in particulate antigen uptake, display strong innate antiviral and antibacterial gene;	signatures and, upon TLR7 stimulation, secrete IL-6 and TNF but no IL-10. However, unlike macrophages, LysoDC display a rapid renewal rate, strongly express genes of the MHCII presentation pathway and prime naïve helper T cells for IFNg production. Our results show;	that in PP,  at steady state, monocytes generate both LysoDC and macrophages which display distinct features from their adjacent villus counterparts."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
0		GSE54120	Dusp9 expression and function in dendritic cells	1/15/2014	Expression profiling by array	"Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC) efficiently produce large amounts of type I interferon in response to TLR7 and TLR9 ligands, whereas conventional DCs (cDC) predominantly secrete high levels of the cytokines IL-10 and IL-12. The molecular basis underlying this distinct phenotype is not well understood. Here, we identified the MAPK phosphatase Dusp9/MKP-4 by transcriptome analysis as selectively expressed in pDC, but not cDC. We confirmed the constitutive expression of Dusp9 at the protein level in pDC generated in vitro by culture with Flt3L and ex vivo in sorted splenic pDC. Dusp9 expression was low in B220- bone marrow precursors and was up-regulated during pDC differentiation, concomitant with established pDC markers. Higher expression of Dusp9 in pDC correlated with impaired phosphorylation of the MAPK ERK1/2 upon TLR9 stimulation. Notably, Dusp9 was not expressed at detectable levels in human pDC, although these displayed similarly impaired activation of ERK1/2 MAPK compared to cDC. Enforced retroviral expression of Dusp9 in mouse GM-CSF-induced cDC increased the expression of TLR7/9-induced IL-12p40 and IFNwhereas IL-10 levels were diminished. Taken together, our results suggest that the species-specific, selective expression of Dusp9 in murine pDC contributes to the differential cytokine/interferon output of pDC and cDC."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	1	
1		GSE67057	Differences in the transcriptomic response of human adult and neonatal dendritic cell subsets to TLR7/8 stimulation	3/19/2015	Expression profiling by array	"Previous studies have shown that purified dendritic cells (DCs) have cell-intrinsic, age-dependent differences in their response to TLR stimulation. To delineate which aspects of the age-dependent difference in innate immunity are cell intrinsic vs extrinsic, we searched for global differences to TLR7/8 stimulation in purified adult vs neonatal DC populations. We hypothesize that very few selected cell intrinsic differences in gene expression of key immune genes between these 2 age groups exist, and the bulk would be cell extrinsic differences. The results show that there are age-dependent differences in expression of several key genes involved in the immune response at baseline already. Upon stimulation, we identified a substantially larger fraction of age-dependent differentially expressed genes in conventional than plasmacytoid DCs. Bioinformatics analyses indicate that important immune pathways were significantly differentially expressed in DC subsets between the 2 age groups."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1	CD69	GSE41825	Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Regulates TLR9 but not TLR7 Signaling in Human pDCs	10/24/2012	Expression profiling by array	"Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) can be activated by the endosomal TLRs, and contribute to the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by producing type I IFNs. Thus, blocking TLR-mediated pDC activation may represent a useful approach for the treatment of SLE. In an attempt to identify a therapeutic target for blocking TLR signaling in pDCs, we investigated the contribution of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) to the activation of pDCs by TLR7 and TLR9 stimulation by using a selective Btk inhibitor RN486. Stimulation of TLR7 and 9 with their respective agonist, namely, gardiquimod and type A CpG ODN2216, resulted in the activation of human pDCs, as demonstrated by the expression of activation markers (CD69, CD40, and CD86), elevated production of IFN-alpha and other inflammatory cytokines, as well as up-regulation of numerous genes including IFN-alpha-inducible genes and activation of interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) and NF-kB. RN486 inhibited all of these events induced by TLR9, but not TLR7 stimulation, with a nanomolar potency for inhibiting type A CpG ODN2216-mediated production of cytokines (e.g., IC50=386 nM for inhibiting IFN-alpha). Our data reveal Btk as an important regulatory enzyme in the TLR9 pathway, and a potential therapeutic target for SLE and other TLR-driven diseases."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	1	
1	IL21	GSE77145	TBET+ B cell fates are governed by the interplay of TFH cytokines in the context of endosomal TLR engagement	1/22/2016	Expression profiling by array	"In B cells, TBET and CD11c expression are linked with IgG2c isotype switching, propensity for humoral autoimmunity, and the formation of age-associated B cells. Prior studies implicate IFNG as a mediator of these effector fates. Here we show that TBET and CD11c are induced by IL21 in the context of TLR7 or TLR9 signals, and can be blocked by concomitant IL4 stimulation. This differs from IFNG-driven TBET expression because IFNG neither induces CD11c nor is blocked by IL4. Moreover, IFNG and IL21 establish similar but distinct transcriptional profiles in the resulting TBET+ B cells. Consistent with our in vitro observations, IL21 overexpression in vivo is sufficient to promote disproportionate accumulation of TBET+ CD11c+ B cells. To further dissect the interplay of IL21, IL4, and IFNG in controlling the TBET+CD11c+ B cell fate, we used two infection models. Mice infected with either influenza or Heligmosomoides polygyrus accumulated TBET+CD11c+ B cells preferentially into the memory B (BMEM) cell pools in the absence of IL4 and IFNG. Further, the predominant antibody isotype generated against H. polygyrus changes from IgG1 to IgG2c in IL4-deficient mice and is independent of IFNG. Thus, while the magnitude of the germinal center B, plasma cell, BMEM, and T follicular helper cell responses remain largely comparable across genotypes, the quality of the immune response changes based on the relative prevalence of these three cytokines."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	1	
1		GSE79272	Stimulation of isolated plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) with TLR9 agonist CpG C (CpG) and TLR7 agonist imiquimod (IMQ)	3/16/2016	Expression profiling by high throughput sequencing	The purpose of this experiment was to assess the genes upregulated when pDCs were stimulated with TLR7 agonist imiquimod and TLR9 agonist CpG C.	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	1	
0		GSE78243	Oxidized mitochondrial nucleoids released by neutrophils drive  type I Interferon production in human lupus	2/24/2016	Expression profiling by array	"Autoantibodies against nucleic acids and excessive type I Interferon (IFN) are hallmarks  of human Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). We previously reported that SLE  neutrophils, exposed to TLR7-agonist autoantibodies, release interferogenic DNA, which  we now demonstrate to be of mitochondrial origin. We further show that healthy human  neutrophils do not complete mitophagy upon induction of mitochondrial damage. Rather,  they extrude mitochondrial components, including DNA (mtDNA), devoid of oxidized  residues. When MtDNA undergoes oxidation, it is directly routed to lysosomes for  degradation. This rerouting requires dissociation from the transcription factor TFAM, a  dual high mobility group (HMG) protein involved in maintenance and compaction of the  mitochondrial genome into nucleoids. Exposure of SLE neutrophils, or healthy IFNprimed  neutrophils, to anti-RNP autoantibodies blocks TFAM phosphorylation, a  necessary step for nucleoid dissociation. Consequently, oxidized nucleoids accumulate  within mitochondria and are eventually extruded as potent interferogenic complexes. In  support of the in vivo relevance of this phenomenon, mitochondrial retention of oxidized  nucleoids is a feature of SLE blood neutrophils, and autoantibodies against oxidized  mtDNA are present in a fraction of patients. This pathway represents a novel therapeutic  target in human SLE."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE81527	IRAK4_hPBMC_stimulus_compound_exp3	5/17/2016	Expression profiling by array	The goal of this experiment is to characterize the ability of IRAK4 kinase inhibitors to block TLR7 or TLR9 induced gene transcription in human PBMCs. PBMCs from two donors were pretreated with compound for 30 minutes and stimulated with gardiquimod (TLR7 ligand) or ODN 2216 (TLR9 ligand) for 5 hrs. Compound treated gene expression profiles wil be compared to untreated.	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	1	
0		GSE70505	CD103+ Conventional Dendritic Cells are Critical for TLR-dependent Host Defense against an Endemic Fungal Pathogen	7/4/2015	Expression profiling by array	"Innate immune cells shape the host response to microbial;	pathogens. Here we studied the role of TLR7/9 in dendritic cell (DC);	responses to Histoplasma capsulatum, an intracellular fungal pathogen;	of humans. Whereas macrophages succumbed to Histoplasma infection,;	TLR7/9 were critical for DCs to produce Type I interferons (IFN-I),;	restrict fungal growth, and survive fungal infection. In the mouse;	model of infection, optimal IFN-I and IFN gamma production, host survival,;	and restriction of cerebral fungal burden were also dependent on;	TLR7/9.  Interestingly, CD103+ conventional DCs were the major;	producer of IFN-I in the lungs of infected mice, revealing a;	previously unknown role for these cells and uncovering their pivotal;	function in modulating the host immune response to endemic fungi."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE94380	Gene expression data of Peyer's patch conventional dendritic cells  and macrophages at steady state and under TLR7 ligand stimulation	2/1/2017	Expression profiling by array	"The initiation of the mucosal immune response in Peyer’s patch (PP) relies on the sampling, processing and efficient presentation of foreign antigens by dendritic cells (DC). PP DC encompass five subsets, among which CD11b+ conventional DC (cDC) and LysoDC have distinct progenitors and functions but share many cell surface markers. This has previously led to confusion between these two subsets. In addition, another PP DC subset, termed double-negative (DN), remains poorly characterized. Here, we have studied the genetic relatedness of  the different subsets of PP cDC at steady state and under TLR7 ligand stimulation. We also provide the transcriptional profiles of  subepithelial TIM-4- and interfollicular TIM-4+ macrophages."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE94843	RNA-sequencing of murine norovirus (MNV) infection and loxoribine (Lox) stimulation in RAW264.7 macrophages	2/13/2017	Expression profiling by high throughput sequencing	"This study aimed to generate a comprehensive analysis of changes in the transcriptome following MNV infection. Furthermore, we aimed to perform a differential gene expression analysis between MNV infection and loxoribine (tlr7 agonist) treatment to delineate features of the host modified directly by the MNV as opposed to indirect changes induced through IFN signalling."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE80028	Vaccination and topical imiquimod treatment promote immune signatures in melanoma	4/7/2016	Expression profiling by array	"Introduction: Infiltration of cancers by T-cells is associated with improved patient survival and response to immune therapies; however, optimal approaches to induce T-cell infiltration of tumors are not known. This study tests the hypothesis that topical treatment of melanoma metastases with the TLR7 agonist imiquimod treatment plus administration of a multipeptide cancer vaccine will improve immune cell infiltration of melanoma metastases. Patients and Methods: Eligible patients were immunized with a vaccine comprised of 12 melanoma peptides and a tetanus toxoid-derived helper peptide, and imiquimod was applied topically to tumors daily. Adverse events (AE; CTCAE v4.03) were recorded and effects on the tumor microenvironment (TME) were evaluated from sequential tumor biopsies. T-cell responses were assessed by IFNgamma ELIspot assay, and T-cell tetramer staining. Patient tumors were evaluated for immune cell infiltration, cytokine and chemokine production, and gene expression. Results and Conclusions: Four eligible patients were enrolled, and administration of imiquimod and vaccination was well tolerated in these patients. Circulating T-cell responses to the vaccine were detected by ex vivo ELIspot assay in 3 of 4 patients. Treatment of metastases with imiquimod induced immune cell infiltration and favorable gene signatures in the patients with circulating T-cell responses. This study supports further study of topical imiquimod combined with vaccines or other immune therapies for the treatment of melanoma. Precis: This clinical trial tested topical application of imiquimod to melanoma metastases combined with a melanoma vaccine. The regimen dramatically upregulated immune rejection gene signatures in melanoma metastases and increased T-cell infiltrate."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	0	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE6789	response to IL-1b of WT and IRAK4 kinase dead mouse embryonic fibroblasts	1/18/2007	Expression profiling by array	"IRAK-4 is an essential component of the signal transduction complex downstream of the IL-1- and Toll-like receptors. Though regarded as the first kinase in the signaling cascade, the role of IRAK-4 kinase activity versus its scaffold function is still controversial. In order to investigate the role of IRAK-4 kinase function in vivo, ‘knock-in’ mice were generated by replacing the wild type IRAK-4 gene with a mutant gene encoding kinase deficient IRAK-4 protein (IRAK-4 KD). Analysis of embryonic fibroblasts and macrophages obtained from IRAK-4 KD mice with a number of experimental techniques demonstrated that they greatly lack responsiveness to stimulation with IL-1b or a Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist. One of the techniques used, microarray analysis, identified IRAK-4 kinase-dependent IL-1b response genes in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and revealed that the induction of IL-1b-responsive mRNAs was largely ablated in IRAK-4 KD cells. In summary, our results suggest that IRAK-4 kinase activity plays a critical role in IL-1R/TLR7-mediated induction of inflammatory responses.;	Keywords: genetic modification, strain comparison, cell stimulation, time course, inflammatory response"	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE7831	Expression data from immature pDC and pDC activated with CpG 1826 and influenza virus PR8	5/17/2007	Expression profiling by array	"CpG 1826 binds to Toll-like receptor (TLR)9, whereas influenza virus PR8 activates pDC via TLR7. Differential stimulation of pDCs is expected to result in unique activation mechanism(s) leading to a different phenotypically and functionally matured pDC;	We used microarrays to detail the global programme of gene expression underlying the maturation process of pDC activated with CpG 1826 and influenza virus PR8. We identified a distinct expression profile of upregulated immunomediators.;	Keywords: time course"	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE9287	Differential gene expression in wild-type versus Yaa mutant mouse spleen cells	10/10/2007	Expression profiling by array	"T cells from many patients with systemic lupus erythematosus are hypoproliferative in response to TCR ligation. This defect is mediated, at least in part, through down regulation of the TCR zeta chain. Investigation of this phenomenon in lupus-prone mice revealed that the hypoproliferative T cell phenotype apparent in BXSB males is mediated;	in part by the Yaa locus. The BXSB model of lupus is a recombinant inbred strain that was originally derived from a cross between a male SB/LE mouse and a female C57BL/6 mouse. BXSB is unique among lupus-prone mouse strains, in that males carry an autoimmune accelerating factor on the Y chromosome, termed Yaa, which accelerates disease onset in male BXSB mice so that fatal glomerulonephritis occurs around 6 months of age. It was recently reported that the Yaa locus is a translocation of a short stretch of genes including that encoding Toll-like;	receptor 7 (Tlr-7) from the X to the Y chromosome, leading to a two-fold over expression of a subset of these genes, including Tlr-7, and hypersensitivity of Yaa+ cells to TLR-7 agonists.;	;	To more fully understand the functional significance of the Yaa gene and how it plays a part in the modulation of CD4+ T cell responses, we performed microarray analysis using Affymetrix 430 2.0 arrays on spleens from B6 male B6.Yaa male samples.  The analysis revealed an enhanced signature of innate immunity, including increased expression not only of Tlr7 and Tlr8, in line with reports that the Yaa locus leads to a duplication of the murine Tlr7 and Tlr8 genes , but also of Tlr2, Tlr5, Cd14, Lbp, C2, C3 and genes for several heat-shock proteins. T cells from B6.Yaa mice also displayed decreased TCRζ expression. Interestingly, cell surface levels of the inhibitory molecule B7-H1 were increased on B6.Yaa B cells and monocytes/macrophages. In line with increased TLR-7 expression reported in B6.Yaa mice, the TLR-7 agonist imiquimod increased B7-H1 expression on normal B cells. Restoration of proliferation in co-cultures of B6 T cells and B6.Yaa APC with B7-H1 blocking Ab demonstrated a mechanistic contribution of B7-H1 up-regulation to Yaa-mediated APC-dependent T cell hypoproliferation. In addition, T cell hypoproliferation was induced in normal B6 T cells in vitro by the application of imiquimod. However, this defect was not mediated by B7-H1 or secreted factors but was independent of APC and mediated through direct imiquimod stimulation of T cells themselves. We postulate that excessive TLR-7 stimulation in Yaa+ mice mediates T cell hypoproliferation in part through up-regulation of B7-H1 and possibly also through direct T cell-mediated effects.;	Keywords: differential gene expression, RNA, spleen, C57Bl/6J, B6.SB-Yaa/J, male, wild type, Yaa"	Mus musculus		0	0	1	0	1	1	0	1	1	0	
1		GSE13032	The Effects of Resiquimod Treatment on the Asthma Transcriptome	10/3/2008	Expression profiling by array	"Resiquimod is a nucleoside analog belonging to the imidazoquinoline family of compounds which is known to signal through Toll-like receptor 7.  Resiquimod treatment has been demonstrated to inhibit the development of allergen induced asthma in experimental models.  Despite this demonstrated effectiveness, little is known about the molecular events responsible for this effect.  The aim of the present study was to elucidate the molecular processes which were altered following resiquimod treatment and antigen challenge in a mouse model of allergic asthma.  Employing microarray analysis, we have characterized the “asthmatic” transcriptome of the murine lung and determined that it includes genes involved in: the control of cell cycle progression, airway remodelling, the complement and coagulation cascades, and chemokine signalling.  We have demonstrated that systemic resiquimod administration resulted in the recruitment of NK cells to the lungs of the mice, although no causal relationship between NK cell recruitment and treatment efficacy was found.  Furthermore, results of our studies demonstrated that resiquimod treatment resulted in the normalization of the expression of genes involved with airway remodelling and chemokine signalling, and in the modulation of the expression of genes including cytokines and chemokines, adhesion molecules, and B-cell related genes, involved in several aspects of immune function and antigen presentation.  Overall, our findings identified several genes, important in the development of asthma pathology, that were normalized following resiquimod treatment thus improving our understanding of the molecular consequences of resiquimod treatment in the lung milieu.;	;	Keywords: Disease and treatment state analysis"	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE41496	Toll-like receptor 7 is a primary sensor of malaria infection	10/11/2012	Expression profiling by array	"Microarray profiling of amplified total splenic RNA isolated from TLR9-, TLR7-, UNC93b1- or MYD88- deficient mice or their C57BL/6 controls 24h after mock infection or infection with Plasmodium chabaudi."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	1	
1		GSE50400	"Suppression of molecular inflammatory pathways by Toll-like Receptor 7, 8, and 9 antagonists in a model of IL-23-induced skin inflammation"	8/28/2013	Expression profiling by array	"Psoriasis is a complex inflammatory disease resulting from the activation of T helper (Th) 1 and Th17 cells.  Recent evidence suggests that abnormal activation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 7, 8 and 9 contributes to the initiation and maintenance of psoriasis.  We have evaluated the effects of TLR antagonists on the gene expression profile in an IL-23-induced skin inflammation model in mice.  Psoriasis-like skin lesions were induced in C57BL/6 mice by intradermal injection of IL-23 in the dorsum.  Two TLR antagonists were compared: IMO-3100, an antagonist of TLRs 7 and 9, and IMO-8400, an antagonist of TLRs 7, 8 and 9, both of which previously have been shown to reduce epidermal hyperplasia in this model.  Skin gene expression profiles of IL-23-induced inflammation were compared with or without TLR antagonist treatment.  IL-23 injection resulted in alteration of 5100 gene probes (fold change ≥ 2, FDR < 0.05) including IL-17 pathways that are up-regulated in psoriasis vulgaris.   Targeting TLRs 7, 8 and 9 with IMO-8400 resulted in modulation of more than 2300 mRNAs while targeting TLRs 7 and 9 with IMO-3100 resulted in modulation of more than 1900 mRNAs.  Both agents strongly decreased IL-17A expression (>12-fold reduction), normalized IL-17 induced genes such as beta-defensin and CXCL1, and normalized aberrant expression of keratin 16 (indicating epidermal hyperplasia). These results suggest that IL-23-driven inflammation in mouse skin may be dependent on signaling mediated by TLRs 7, 8, and 9 and that these receptors represent novel therapeutic targets in psoriasis vulgaris and other diseases with similar pathophysiology."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE47147	Oncogenic MyD88 Mutants Require Toll-like Receptors	5/21/2013	Expression profiling by array	"In the activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most frequent gain-of-function mutations target MyD88, a signaling adapter for Tolllike receptors (TLRs). The most prevalent oncogenic mutant, MyD88 L265P, occurs in 29% of cases and is the most active in engaging the NF-kappaB pathway. Here we show that MyD88 mutants do not function autonomously, but rather require TLR7, TLR9, and to a lesser extent, TLR4 to promote the survival of ABC DLBCL cells. Unlike wild type MyD88, MyD88 mutants associate constitutively with TLR7 and TLR9 in ABC DLBCL cells. Like ligand-induced TLR7/9 signaling in normal immune cells, the survival of ABC DLBCL cell lines depends upon translocation of TLR7 and TLR9 to acidic endolysosomes, where proteolytic processing of their ligand binding ectodomains is required for their oncogenic signaling. ABC DLBCL viability also depends upon CD14, a co-receptor for TLR7 and TLR9 that promotes engagement of nucleic acid ligands by these receptors. Point mutations in the TLR7 or TLR9 ectodomains that abrogate ligand binding and/or signaling were incapable of sustaining ABC DLBCL survival. An inhibitory oligonucleotide that suppresses TLR9 responses in normal B cells blocked NF-kappaB signaling and survival of ABC DLBCL lines. Together, these data suggest that an endogenous TLR ligand may play a pathogenic role in ABC DLBCL and provide a rationale for targeting TLR signaling to improve therapy of this aggressive lymphoma."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	1	
0		GSE62627	Global analyses revealed age-related alterations in innate immune responses after stimulation of pathogen-recognition receptors	10/22/2014	Expression profiling by array	"Aging leads to dysregulation of multiple components of the immune system that result in increased susceptibility to infections and poor response to vaccines in the aging population. The dysfunctions of adaptive T- and B-cells are well documented but the effect of aging on innate immunity remains incompletely understood. Therefore, we first undertook transcriptional profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and found that PBMCs isolated from old individuals (≥65 yrs) exhibited a delayed and altered response to stimulation with TLR4, TLR7/8, and RIG-I agonists compared to cells obtained from adults (≤40 yrs). This delayed response to innate immune agonists resulted in the reduced production of pro-inflammatory and antiviral cytokines and chemokines including TNFα, IL-6, IL-1β, IFNα, IFNγ, CCL2 and CCL7. While the major monocyte and dendritic cell subsets did not change numerically with aging, activation of specific cell types was altered. We observed old PBMCs had a lower frequency of CD40+ monocytes, impaired up-regulation of PD-L1 on monocytes and T cells and increased expression of PD-L2 and B7-H4 on B cells. The defective innate immune response adversely affected adaptive immunity as TLR-stimulated PBMCs (minus CD3 T cells) from old subjects’ elicited significantly lower levels of adult T cell proliferation than those from adult subjects in an allogeneic mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). Collectively, these age-associated changes in cytokine, chemokine and interferon production, as well as co-stimulatory protein expression, could be responsible for the blunt memory B and T cell immune responses to vaccines and infections."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE58756	Cell intrinsic expression of TLR9 in autoreactive B cells constrains BCR/TLR7-dependent responses	6/24/2014	Expression profiling by array	"Endosomal Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play an important role in the etiology of systemic autoimmune diseases such as SLE, where DNA- and RNA-associated autoantigens activate autoreactive B cells through TLR9- and TLR7-dependent pathways, respectively. Nevertheless, TLR9-deficient autoimmune prone mice develop more severe clinical disease, while TLR7-deficient and TLR7/9-double deficient autoimmune-prone mice develop less severe disease. To determine whether the regulatory activity of TLR9 is B cell intrinsic, we have now directly compared the functional properties of autoantigen activated WT, TLR9-deficient and TLR7-deficient B cells, in an experimental system where proliferation depends on BCR/TLR co-engagement. In vitro, TLR9-deficient cells are less dependent on survival factors for a sustained proliferative response than either WT or TLR7-deficient cells. The TLR9-deficient cells also preferentially differentiate toward the plasma cell lineage, as indicated by expression of CD138, sustained expression of IRF4, and other molecular markers of plasma cells. In vivo, autoantigen-activated TLR9-deficient cells give rise to greater numbers of autoantibody producing cells. Our results identify distinct roles for TLR7 and TLR9 in the differentiation of autoreactive B cells that explain the capacity of TLR9 to limit, and TLR7 to promote, the clinical features of SLE."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	1	
1		GSE65309	Proliferating Langerhans cells dampen inflammation in established mouse psoriatic lesions	1/26/2015	Expression profiling by array	"Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory skin disease of unknown etiology. Although macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) have been proposed to drive the psoriatic cascade, their largely overlapping phenotype hampered studying their respective role. Topical application of Imiquimod, a Toll-like receptor 7 agonist, induces psoriasis in patients and psoriasiform inflammation in mice. We showed that daily application of Imiquimod for 14 days recapitulated both the initiation and the maintenance phase of psoriasis. Based on our ability to discriminate Langerhans cells (LCs), conventional DCs, monocytes, monocyte-derived DCs and macrophages in the skin, we characterized their dynamics during both phases of psoriasis. During the initiation phase, neutrophils infiltrated the epidermis whereas monocytes and monocyte-derived DCs were predominant in the dermis. During the maintenance phase, LCs and macrophage numbers increased in the epidermis and dermis, respectively. LC expansion resulted from local proliferation, a conclusion supported by transcriptional analysis. Continuous depletion of LCs during the course of Imiquimod treatment aggravated chronic psoriatic symptoms as documented by an increased influx of neutrophils and a stronger inflammation. Therefore, by developing a mouse model that mimics the human disease more accurately, we established that LCs play a negative regulatory role during the maintenance phase of psoriasis."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
0		GSE57008	Transcriptomics of murine ex vivo isolated alveolar type 2 epithelial cells from Influenza A respiratory infection	4/23/2014	Expression profiling by array	"Background: Influenza A virus (IAV) infections periodically cause substantial morbidity and mortality in the human population. In the lung, the primary targets for IAV replication are type II alveolar epithelial cells (AECII), which are increasingly recognized for their immunological potential. However, our knowledge of the role of AECII in anti-IAV immunity is incomplete and their in vivo response to infection has not been evaluated. To increase our understanding of their role in host-response to IAV-infection, we analyzed transcriptional regulation in primary AECII isolated from infected mice.     Results: Microarray analyses of AECII isolated on the first three days following IAV-infection revealed extensive transcriptional regulation. A multitude of differentially expressed transcripts was identified and in comparison to whole-lung tissue revealed a strong contribution of AECII to respiratory anti-IAV responses. Type I interferon played a major role in the detected gene expression profile and functional pathway analyses showed AECII to be highly active in pathogen recognition, cell recruitment and antigen-presentation. Analysis of Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) deficient mice indicated AECII to rely on the host’s expression of this innate IAV-sensor to elicit their full response. Importantly, the AECII transcriptional profiles correlated to cell recruitment and type I interferon levels detected in the lungs of infected animals.     Conclusions: Ex vivo analysis of primary murine AECII proved as a powerful tool to increase our understanding of AECII biology in infection. Our analysis revealed an exceptionally strong contribution of AECII to local host defenses by integrating signals provided by surrounding cells and direct pathogen recognition."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE70520	Dysregulated TLR7 signaling drives anemia via development of hemophagocytic macrophages	7/6/2015	Expression profiling by high throughput sequencing	"The debilitating autoimmune disease Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) is closely associated with Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 and type I interferon (IFN) activity in humans and in murine SLE-like disease. Two central manifestations of SLE affect the myeloid lineage of the immune system, myeloid expansion and anemia. Yet, whether these symptoms are linked and the role of TLR7 and/or type I IFN in these processes is unclear. Here we show that TLR7 signaling promotes cell-autonomous, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)- and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-dependent macrophage development from the common myeloid progenitor (CMP). Strikingly, this TLR7-driven macrophage development requires and is enhanced by type I IFN. Genome-wide transcriptional profiling and functional studies demonstrated that TLR7 promoted the expression of Spic, the master regulator of splenic red pulp macrophages (RPM) and preferential development of hemophagocytic RPM-like cells from CMP in vitro. We found increased incidence of RPM-like cells in vivo in a mouse model of SLE caused by TLR7 overexpression, which correlated with decreased red blood cell (RBC) count and anemia. These findings demonstrate a mechanism by which TLR7 signaling promotes anemia that is of clinical significance in SLE, other rheumatological diseases and chronic viral infections. This work also identifies a previously unknown molecular pathway by which TLR signaling and type I IFN synergize to promote myeloid development from hematopoietic progenitors."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE98480	Gene expression profile of human antigen presenting cells with a tolerogenic phenotype	5/2/2017	Expression profiling by array	"Immature dendritic cells (DCs) that are incubated with TLR-ligands during in vitro differentiation develop a tolerogenic phenotype. Especially an early encounter of isolated monocytes with the Toll-like receptor 7/8 ligand R848 mediates a switch of pro-inflammatory to immunosupressive properties. We were strongly interested in the identification of factors that are involved in the differentiation of these tolerogenic cells, thus we performed gene expression analysis."	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	1	0	0	
1		GSE5121	Imiquimod treated Basal Cell Carcinoma	6/21/2006	Expression profiling by array	"Imiquimod is a Toll-like receptor (TLR)-7 agonist capable of inducing complete clearance of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and other cutaneous malignancies. We hypothesized that the characterization of the early transcriptional events induced by imiquimod may provide insights about immunological events preceding acute tissue and/or tumor rejection. We report a paired analysis of adjacent punch biopsies obtained pre- and post-treatment from 36 patients with BCC subjected to local application of imiquimod (N = 22) or vehicle cream (N=14) in a blinded, randomized protocol. Four treatments were assessed (q12 applications for 2 or 4 days, or q24 hrs for 4 or 8 days). RNA was amplified and hybridized to 17.5K cDNA arrays. All treatment schedules similarly affected the transcriptional profile of BCC; however, the q12 X 4days regimen, associated with highest effectiveness, induced the most changes with 637 genes unequivocally stimulated by imiquimod. A minority of transcripts (98 genes) confirmed previous reports of interferon-  involvement. The remaining 539 genes portrayed additional immunological functions predominantly involving the activation of cellular innate and adaptive immune-effector mechanisms. Importantly, these effector signatures recapitulate previous observations of tissue rejection in the context of cancer immunotherapy, acute allograft rejection and autoimmunity. This study based on a powerful and reproducible model of cancer eradication by innate immune mechanisms provides the first insight in humans of the early transcriptional events associated with immune rejection. This model is likely representative of constant immunological pathways through which innate and adaptive immune responses combine to induce tissue destruction.;	Keywords: compound treatment design"	Homo sapiens		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	
1		GSE25677	Sorted B cells from mice treated with MPL and/or R837	11/29/2010	Expression profiling by array	"Many successful vaccines induce persistent antibody responses that can last a lifetime. The mechanisms by which they do so remain unclear, but emerging evidence suggests that activate dendritic cells (DCs) via Toll-like receptors (TLRs). For example, the yellow fever vaccine YF-17D,  one of the most successful empiric vaccines ever developed, activates DCs via multiple TLRs to stimulate pro-inflammatory cytokines. Triggering specific combinations of TLRs in DCs can induce synergistic production of cytokines, which results in enhanced T cell responses, but its impact on antibody responses remain unknown. Learning the critical parameters of innate immunity that programs such antibody responses remains a major challenge in vaccinology. We demonstrated that immunization of mice with synthetic nanoparticles containing antigens plus Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands 4 (MPL) + 7 (R837) induces synergistic increases in antigen-specific, neutralizing antibodies compared to immunization with a single TLR ligand. To determine whether there was any early programming of B cells, we isolated isotype switched, TCRbeta-CD11b-CD19+IgD-IgG+ B cells by FACS at 7 days post immunization with nanoparticles containing various adjuvants plus OVA, and performed microarray analyses to assess their molecular signatures."	Mus musculus		0	0	0	0	1	0	0	0	0	0	
